# EPrints Steering Committee Minutes and Agenda 28th June 2024

## Attendees
* Rory McNicholl
* Justin Bradley
* Tomasz Neugebauer
* Kate Petherbridge
* John Salter
* George Macgregor

## Change to Agenda
## Agenda
### Agree organisation documents
1. Steering committee
2. Charter
3. Code of conduct
4. Antitrust
5. Trademarks
### Suggestions for other SC members
### SC meeting frequency and date and agenda of next meeting
### Any Other Business
## Date of next Meeting


## Notes (draft)

Intros:
Rory / Justin / Tomasz / John / Kate / George

What Platform for calls? Teams/chat doesn't work for some due to limitations on 'guest' use of Teams.

Rory: started this theme following OR2024 dicussions around governance. The GitHub MVG seemed like a good starting point, although
EPrints is 25 years old, but community feels like it needs a bit of oversight/steering.

5 documents in MVG.

First pass of Steering GRoup seems OK.
Tomasz: question about length of tenure for committee members. 
Advantages for contnuity, but need to make sure it's a fair representation
- if you're interested, how to apply to join? [ACTION]
- tackle 'term length' question later.

JS: need to balance types of people on committee - technical/user/vendor .

Kate: offered to write a ToR for the committee [ACTION]

## Charter
Name (obvious)
Mission (...?)
KP: needs to include promotion of 'us' - EPrints is alive

Tomasz: agree. Need a future-plan (which does exist). 
Comms plan - around releases.

JB: outputs from these meetings stored on eprints.org

RM: Agree - no barrier to participation

Sub-groups for technical/core dev; another for comms/amplification

4-things:
- user group
- website (eprints.org vs. eprint services vs. eprintsug)
- 25 years
- comaprison of infrastructure. InfraFind? Need to create an EPrints profile on there [ACTION]
--- good tool for us to see what we need to do too.

JS: need to communicate 'community delivered' contributions to the wider community in e.g. quarterly news

RM: yes - need to communicate technical things / support people who are writing stuff to help them 'release' it properly.

JB: Advocacy

TN: clearer ways to learn both tehnical skills and manager skills. We don't have a 'community manager'. Make these pathways easier to 
find and follow.
EPrintsUG is good for developers. We need similar for non-technical.

GM: we need these - and ways to escalate / aid the local resources to bring into core. Need to get the governance structure in place
and see how it goes.
Easier for other platforms to report at OR conf about what they've done/where they are.

KP: channels are strong, but not where repository managers exist. Need to be written in non-tech language, they need to be inclusive
of the manager layer and their skills.

RM: this meeting is the start

Which web-presence is the right place - Wiki / 

TN: need to be able to demo - the info is difficult yo find.

...descended into a technical rambling about releases/core...

TN: Key plugins need to be maintained.

JS: Needs non-technical config interface in EPrints

RM: (other platform - Hyrax?) has a way to promote/adopt changes into 'core'

[general chat] about release notes / too technical / need to de-Dave them

[ACTION] need to cvreate human readable top-level wiki pages for humans.

---
- CoC: 
placeholders need to be replaced.
Need a contribution document

- AntiTrust:
seems good

- Trademarks
No legal enforcement
marketing services vs product?


## membership

- need more
- need to shout about good news
- 

Communiy smells - presentation by Tomasz at OR2024. 

RM: wants to run a marketing website(?)

RM: 8-10 people on steering committee
Post to be created/sent to mailing lists/global platforms.

## freq
options posited. Monthly for the short term; less frequently after we've established ourselves

WOuld be good to have something at OR2025.

### maintainers
- frequency as necessary
- a set of 'known freiendlies' to help review new core.


### Next meeting: 
2nd August

### AOB
Polish documents - remove placeolders [ACTION: RM]
Draft the mission - [ACTION - align with ToR KP/JS]

