# EPrints Steering Committee Minutes and Agenda 2nd August 2024

## Attendees
* Rory McNicholl
* Justin Bradley
* Tomasz Neugebauer
* Kate Petherbridge
* John Salter
* George Macgregor

## Agenda
- Assignment of rotatating sectretary?
- Report on actions
  - RM
    - Update placeholders in charter
  - KP/JS
    - Mission / Terms of Reference
  - Unnassigned actions
    - Infrafind submission
    - Human readable wiki pages
    - Advertising SC and inviting applicants
- Report from maintenance sub-committee (Dave Newman/Will Fyson/John Salter)
- Create an outreach sub-committee?
- Any Other Business
- Date of next Meeting


## Minutes
### Assignment of rotatating sectretary?
- Suggested role: take minutes, circulate minutes, set agenda for next SC meeting
- RM voluteers for this session :)
- Do this in google docs?
  - *Action RM* : Set up google folder for SC
  - *Action KP* : To make template Agenda
  - *Action rotating sec* : Circulate Agenda in good time
  - *Action JS* : to finish minutes from previous meeting
### Report on actions
- RM
  - Update placeholders in charter
    - *Action RM* : Finish and put in google docs and circulate 
    - *Action All* : Review governance docs once RM circulates
- KP/JS
  - Mission / Terms of Reference
    - Google doc shared (https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nzLMH8lwsJo12HCtlTrHI51iIIGeCIjzHHr8UXntkKA/edit)
    - *Action JS/KP* : To finalise draft for comment
- Unnassigned actions
  - Infrafind submission
    - TN : met with infrafind, they are very keen to help (in more ways than just adding to platform)
    - *Action GM* to circulate podcast by infrafind
    - KP : This is really useful first point for non-technical people
    - TN : Can continue comms with infrafind
    - All : Filled out form for infrafind and submitted
    - *Action JB* : continue infrafind process (TN has contacts can assist)
  - Human readable wiki pages
    - RM : idea to use some wiki pages as a quick place to draft "marketing" website
    - TN/GM : competitors : https://scholaris.ca/ https://dspace.lyrasis.org/ https://invenio-software.org/
    - JB : Start with getting some content in pklace on new wiki pages
    - KP : Infrafind pick list of "what info is public" is a good place ot start
    - TN : Look and feel is key, more important than content to some extent
    - *Action RM* : to assemble content on wiki.eprints.org
    - *Action GM* : Investigating structure of repository software presentation (also website options)
  - Advertising SC and inviting applicants
    - GM : should we open up invite etc? JB/TN : not yet until the gov docs and website are finished / in place
    - KP : consider the breadth of channels to use
    - *Action TN* : start drafting messages and compiling channels in google doc
### Report from maintenance sub-committee (Dave Newman/Will Fyson/John Salter)
 - JS : Maint-sub had conversation on moving forward EPrints core and support / integrate community contributions
 - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1nxB8Rof-BPps_po5zkmf_9Jz3a5tg0LgKWZ36_9tW9s/edit?usp=sharing
 - KP : definition of relationship between maintainers and steering
 - RM : apologies to JS for last minute request for report from maintainers... advance warning and definition should help
### Create an outreach sub-committee?
 - See above (Human readable wiki pages and Advertising SC...)
### Any Other Business
None
### Date of next Meeting
Friday 20th September 14:00 BST / 9:00 EDT
