# EPrints Steering Committee Minutes and Agenda 28th June 2024

## Attendees
* Rory McNicholl (RM)
* Justin Bradley (JB)
* Tomasz Neugebauer (TN)
* Kate Petherbridge (KP)
* John Salter (JS)
* George Macgregor (GM)

## Change to Agenda 

## Agenda

### Agree organisation documents
1. Steering committee
2. Charter
3. Code of conduct
4. Antitrust
5. Trademarks
### Suggestions for other SC members
### SC meeting frequency and date and agenda of next meeting
### Any Other Business
## Date of next Meeting


## Minutes

The meeting was conducted as a Teams call, timed to allow participation from overseas attendees.

As the first meeting of the Steering Comittee, introductions were made between those present.

Discussion of appropriate platform to use for future calls. Teams/chat doesn't work for some due to limitations on 'guest' use of Teams.
No alternative adopted at this point in time.

RM explained the background to the meeting - as a result of conversations at OR2024 around governance of EPrints. EPrints is approaching 25 years old, but the community feels like it needs a bit of oversight/steering. The GitHub [Minimum Viable Governance (MVG)](https://github.com/github/MVG/) model seemed like a good starting point.

There are five organisation documents in MVG. These were reviewed:

### 1. Steering committee
First pass of Steering Committee document seems OK.

TN: question about length of tenure for committee members. 
There are advantages with continuity, but need to make sure it's a fair representation

JS: need to balance types of people on committee - technical/user/vendor .

[ ] ACTION: Document joining procedure for interested parties.
[ ] ACTION: discuss 'term length' question.
[ ] ACTION (KP): write a ToR for the Steering Committee

### 2. Charter
Agreement on the 'EPrints Organisation' as a name for us.

#### Mission
KP: this needs to include promotion of 'us' - to promote the fact that EPrints is alive, in use and moving forward

TN: Need a future-plan. This does exist.

Discussion around better communication for new releases. Currently these are fairly technical, and whilst these are useful for some members of the EPrints community, a higher level document, understandable by non-technical people is also needed to document new capabilities. These should be easy to find for people investigating whether EPrints is a possible platform for their needs.

JB: The https://eprints.org/ site does have future plans on it. Technical release notes are on the wiki.

RM: There should be no barrier to participation in the committee, but needs to be small enough to be effective.

A proposal was made to have permanent sub-groups covering:
- technical/core developments
- Communications / amplification (including conference represenation)

Following on from the OR2024 conversaions, there were four aspects identified to investigate/ highlight in the next year:
- reinvigoration of the EPrints User Group
- use of websites (eprints.org vs. eprint services vs. eprintsug). Currently these overlap, and it is not obvious for someone investigating EPrints how they relate.
- Next year EPrints is 25 years old
- InfraFind: a tool for comparison of infrastructure / other repository platforms. This also looks like a useful tool for us to see how the repository landscape is changning, what capabilities other platforms have.

[ ] ACTION: Create profile for EPrints on https://infrafinder.investinopen.org/solutions

There was agreement that 'community delivered' contributions (EPrints extentions/plugins) needed better communication to the wider community in e.g. quarterly news.
It would be beneficial to communicate technical aspects to the developer community, to support people releasing their work properly, but without increasing overhead/time-to-deliver.

JB: Advocacy

TN: clearer ways to learn both tehnical skills and manager skills. We don't have a 'community manager'. Make these pathways easier to 
find and follow.
EPrintsUG is good for developers. We need similar for non-technical.

GM: we need these - and ways to escalate / aid the local resources to bring into core. Need to get the governance structure in place
and see how it goes.
Easier for other platforms to report at OR conf about what they've done/where they are.

KP: channels are strong, but not where repository managers exist. Need to be written in non-tech language, they need to be inclusive
of the manager layer and their skills.

RM: this meeting is the start

Which web-presence is the right place - Wiki / 

TN: need to be able to demo - the info is difficult yo find.

...descended into a technical rambling about releases/core...

TN: Key plugins need to be maintained.

JS: Needs non-technical config interface in EPrints

RM: (other platform - Hyrax?) has a way to promote/adopt changes into 'core'

[general chat] about release notes / too technical / need to de-Dave them

[ACTION] need to cvreate human readable top-level wiki pages for humans.


### 3. Code of Conduct

[ ] ACTION: placeholder text need to be replaced.
[ ] ACTION: Create a contribution-guidelines document

### 4. AntiTrust

General feeling was this document is good.

### 5. Trademarks
No legal enforcement
marketing services vs product?


## Membership
- Need to get more people on-board 
- We need to make more noise about developments/engage with community and beyond

TN Presented a paper at OR2024 about ['Community smells'](https://zenodo.org/records/12579320) - we should reflect on this, and ensure our community is as 'fresh' as possible. 

RM: wants to run a marketing website(?)

RM: 8-10 people on steering committee
Post to be created/sent to mailing lists/global platforms.

## freq
options posited. Monthly for the short term; less frequently after we've established ourselves

WOuld be good to have something at OR2025.

### maintainers
- frequency as necessary
- a set of 'known freiendlies' to help review new core.


### Next meeting: 
2nd August

### AOB
Polish documents - remove placeolders [ACTION: RM]
Draft the mission - [ACTION - align with ToR KP/JS]

